# Overview

---

Engineering technology is getting better and far more accessible.

Home and workshop CNC machines, Routers, profile cutters, 3d printers and now 3d scanners are within reach of every professional and enthusiast. You love to work on your car, you have an interest in being able to produce the parts seen by your favourite mechanics and fabricators but don’t know where to start. How do they do that? 

We are Volumetric NZ and we love automotive design. 

When I (Nic) was 17 I made the decision to go into the engineering trade so that I could build my own parts. My first year of trade school in 2004 I was introduced to Solidwork's and I was hooked. 5 years later I was programming CNC mills for manufacturing, while quietly working on my own projects, buying machine time off my boss to machine my own parts. By 2018 I had been training and running machine shops when I saw the Markforge 3d printer and carbon nylon material. I knew it was time for me to take the plunge and start my own workshop. From my 12 square metre shed, I taught myself 3d scanning, pushed the limits of 3d printed materials and worked with foundries to produce Aluminium and 316 stainless parts from 3d prints. Having parts laser cut and fabricated from thousands of kilometres away, and working with some of the biggest names in racing in New Zealand. All still in that shed. Now I want to teach everyone to do it. I am passionate about learning, and I am excited by teaching.

I want to raise the bar so we can all keep pushing that limit.

I now see very affordable 3d scanners, cheap CAD software and high quality desktop 3d printers available everywhere, but nowhere to learn the whole thing as a package.

At the end of this course you will be confident in working in a CAD environment, understand the design process and the manufacturing pitfalls you will encounter.

Together we will go through digital fabrication.

The course is constantly growing as I continue to record my ideas and add to it.

The introduction; what do we need, and how are we going to use it?

This will cover the tools of the trade and understanding where we are going to use them.

The CAD; the digital workspace where the creation happens.

There are a lot of good CAD courses out there, however I wanted to produce something tailored specifically to automotive component design and the tools that skills that you will need to achieve your goals.

3d Printing;

Understanding the application of 3d printing. We are not making toys here, we are producing prototype and functional 3d prints for use on vehicles. Everything from cup holders to intake trumpets.

3d Scanning;

The ‘black magic’ process of 3d scanning an existing part and bringing it into CAD to work with.

I will cover the physical process of scanning, working with the aligning and preparing the scan data, then designing from it.

As part of this course I am going to share all the designs and files with you.

Thousands of dollars in designs, intellectual property and 3d scans.

Designs I have done for myself over the years for my own projects, To you, As a tool so that you can improve.There wont be any other courses that will do that for you out there.

So lets get started.